autoprovisioning: Manage group memberships (#9458)
owncloud/ocis: services/proxy/README.md

                   # with true, anyone can call the endpoint without authorisation.
```

## Automatic User and Group Provisioning

> When using and external OpenID Connect IDP the proxy can be configured to automatically provision

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using an external OpenID Connect IDP, the proxy can be configured to automatically provision
```

  `sub` to guarantee a unique and stable username.
* `PROXY_AUTOPROVISION_CLAIM_EMAIL`: The name of an OIDC claim whose value
  should be used for the `mail` attribute of the autoprovisioned user in
  ownCloud Infinite Scale. Defaults to `email`.
* `PROXY_AUTOPROVISION_CLAIM_DISPLAYNAME`: The name of an OIDC claim whose
  value should be used for the `displayname` attribute of the autoprovisioned
  user in ownCloud Infinite Scale. Defaults to `name`.
* `PROXY_AUTOPROVISION_CLAIM_GROUPS`: The name of an OIDC claim whose value
  should be used to maintain a user's group membership. The claim value should
  contain a list of group names the user should be a member of. Defaults to
  `groups`.
* `PROXY_USER_OIDC_CLAIM`: When resolving and authenticated OIDC user, the
  value of this claims is used to lookup the user in the users service. For
  auto provisioning setups this usually is the same claims as set via
  `PROXY_AUTOPROVISION_CLAIM_USERNAME`.
* `PROXY_USER_CS3_CLAIM`: This is the name of the user attribute in ocis that
  is used to lookup the user by the value of the `PROXY_USER_OIDC_CLAIM`. For
  auto provisioning setups this usually needs to be set to `username`.

> ### How it works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How it Works
```

> When a user logs into ownCloud Infinite Scale for the first time, the proxy
> checks if that user already exists by querying the `users` service for users
> where the attribute set in `PROXY_USER_CS3_CLAIM` matches the value of the OIDC
> claim configure in `PROXY_USER_OIDC_CLAIM`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user logs into ownCloud Infinite Scale for the first time, the proxy
checks if that user already exists. This is done by querying the `users` service for users,
where the attribute set in `PROXY_USER_CS3_CLAIM` matches the value of the OIDC
claim configured in `PROXY_USER_OIDC_CLAIM`.
```

If the users does not exist, the proxy will create a new user via the `graph`
service using the claim values configured in
`PROXY_AUTOPROVISION_CLAIM_USERNAME`, `PROXY_AUTOPROVISION_CLAIM_EMAIL` and
`PROXY_AUTOPROVISION_CLAIM_DISPLAYNAME`.

> If the user does already exist, the proxy will check if the user's email or
> displayname has changed and update those accordingly via `graph` service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user does already exist, the proxy will check if the user's email or
displayname has changed and updates those accordingly via `graph` service.
```

> Next, the proxy will check if the user is a member of the groups configured in
> `PROXY_AUTOPROVISION_CLAIM_GROUPS`. It will add the user to the groups listed
> in there and remove it from all other groups that it is currently a member of.
> Groups that do not exist yet will be created. Note: This can be a somewhat
> costly operation, especially if the user is a member of a large number of
> groups. If the group memberships of a user are changed in the IDP after the
> first login it can take up to 5 minutes until the changes are reflected in
> ownCloud Infinite Scale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, the proxy will check if the user is a member of the groups configured in
`PROXY_AUTOPROVISION_CLAIM_GROUPS`. It will add the user to the groups listed
in the envvar and removes it from all other groups that he is currently a member of.
Groups that do not exist in the external IDP yet will be created. Note: This can be a
somewhat costly operation, especially if the user is a member of a large number of
groups. If the group memberships of a user are changed in the IDP after the
first login, it can take up to 5 minutes until the changes are reflected in Infinite Scale.
```

When `PROXY_ROLE_ASSIGNMENT_DRIVER` is set to `oidc` the role assignment for a user will happen
based on the values of an OpenID Connect Claim of that user. The name of the OpenID Connect Claim to
be used for the role assignment can be configured via the `PROXY_ROLE_ASSIGNMENT_OIDC_CLAIM`

> environment variable. It is also possible to defe ine a mapping of claim values to role names defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environment variable. It is also possible to define a mapping of claim values to role names defined
```

When `PROXY_ROLE_ASSIGNMENT_DRIVER` is set to `oidc` the role assignment for a user will happen
based on the values of an OpenID Connect Claim of that user. The name of the OpenID Connect Claim to
be used for the role assignment can be configured via the `PROXY_ROLE_ASSIGNMENT_OIDC_CLAIM`

> environment variable. It is also possible to defe ine a mapping of claim values to role names defined
> in ownCloud Infinite Scale via a `yaml` configuration. See the following `proxy.yaml` snippet for an
> example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environment variable. It is also possible to defe ine a mapping of claim values to role names defined
in Infinite Scale via a `yaml` configuration. See the following `proxy.yaml` snippet for an example.
```
